Incentives module (#44)
osmosis-labs/osmosis: x/incentives/spec/02_state.md

<!--
order: 2
-->

# State

## Incentives management

> All the incentives that is going to be provided are locked into `IncentivePool` until it's released to the users after a specific period of time.

Reviewer: Where is the set of users that constitute the pot stored?

Author: I am not sure where we use those set of users.

Reviewer: We have to use them upon releasing the funds from the pot, no?

Reviewer 2: That's gotten from the querying of the lockup module.

### Pot

> A `Pot` is a unit of incentive distributer. It describes the the users who can get reward, and the amount of coins to be distribute, the distribution start time, and the number of epochs it provide incentive from the `Pot`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rewards to be distributed are organized by `Pot`. The `Pot` describes how users can get reward, stores the amount of coins in the pot, the cadence at which rewards are to be distributed, and the number of epochs to distribute the reward over.
```

Reviewer: I'm generally confused on the mental model of this. Is the idea that one AMM creates a single pot, and then every LP'r adds a new distr condition to the pool's Pot via the pool's API?

Reviewer: Or is the idea that everyone who has locked up tokens gets their own pot? (The current API seems to reflect that)
I don't think thats ideal, since it causes much more state / computational overhead, and this is actually going to be a bottleneck for our system. (Also I think we can improve debuggability by having a per-AMM pot)

```go
type DistrCondition struct {

>   LockType   uint64 // type of lock, ByLockDuration | ByLockTime

Reviewer: Could there be a note somewhere nearby for what the two lock types actually do?

Reviewer: (Presumably by lock duration releases it linearly in relation to the time elapsed, whereas by lock time only releases it after the lock time is lifted)

Author: LockType is used as Enum and DistrCondition struct will be generated from protobuf.

Reviewer: Might be worth investigating in the future if we can do some space savings optimizations here via oneof, but thats probably a minor concern for now.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this should be called LockQueryType.  There's only one type of lock, just different ways of querying (by timestamp or duration)

Author: Ok let me update to LockQueryType

  Denom  string // lock denom
  Duration time.Duration // condition for lock duration, only valid if positive

>   Timestamp time.Time // condition for lock start time, not valid if unset value

Reviewer: Is it simple to encode these as a protobuf oneof? (Since this really are LockType SpecificData)

Author: This struct is DistrCondition, and I think current struct is just the protobuf that describes lock type.

<!--
order: 2
-->

# State

## Incentives management

All the incentives that is going to be provided are locked into `IncentivePool` until it's released to the users after a specific period of time.

### Pot

Rewards to be distributed are organized by `Pot`. The `Pot` describes how users can get reward, stores the amount of coins in the pot, the cadence at which rewards are to be distributed, and the number of epochs to distribute the reward over.

```go
type LockQueryType int
const (
  ByLockDuration LockQueryType = iota // locks which has more than specific duration
  ByLockTime // locks which are started before specific time
)

> type DistrCondition struct {

Author: Probably, it would be good to put it as query condition.

  LockType LockType // type of lock condition
  Denom  string // lock denom
  Duration time.Duration // condition for lock duration, only valid if positive
  Timestamp time.Time // condition for lock start time, not valid if unset value
}

type Pot struct {
  ID           uint64 // unique ID of a Pot

>   DistributeTo []DistrCondition // distribute condition of a lock which meet one of these conditions

Reviewer: We need some mechanism to encode the percent amount to distribute funds to. Perhaps a "weight" field should be added to each DistrCondition, and a "total weight" field added to pot?

Reviewer 2: Oh interesting.  I was thinking that we would create separate pots for each distribution condition.  Is there any benefit to having multiple distribution conditions in a single pot?

Author: yeah, adding different pot per distr condition would be simpler.

Reviewer: Ok, so this shouldn't be a slice, it should just be a single DistrCondition right?

  TotalRewards sdk.Coins // can distribute multiple coins
  StartTime    time.Time // start time to start distribution
  NumEpochs    uint64 // number of epochs distribution will be done 
}
```

```protobuf
enum LockQueryType {
  option (gogoproto.goproto_enum_prefix) = false;

  ByDuration = 0; // locks which has more than specific duration
  ByTime = 1; // locks which are started before specific time
}

message DistrCondition {
  LockQueryType lock_query_type = 1; // type of lock, ByLockDuration | ByLockTime
  string denom = 2; // lock denom
  google.protobuf.Duration duration = 3; // condition for lock duration, only valid if positive

>   google.protobuf.Timestamp timestamp = 4; // condition for lock start time, not valid if unset value

Author: It depends on lock_query_type, only one is used by query type. In case we add something like ByLockDurationAndTime, then could use both, but only one is used for now.

}

message Pot {
  uint64 id = 1; // unique ID of a Pot
  repeated DistrCondition distribute_to = 2; // distribute condition of a lock which meet one of these conditions
  repeated cosmos.base.v1beta1.Coin coins = 3; // can distribute multiple coins

>   google.protobuf.Timestamp start_time = 4; // condition for lock start time, not valid if unset value

Author: pot distribution start after this time, in case, pot owner want to distribute to only long term supporters.

  uint64 num_epochs = 5; // number of epochs distribution will be done 
}
```

> ### Pot queues

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the difference between Upcoming and Active.

Author: Upcoming means pot's distribution start time does not meet yet, Active menas start time reached and it's being distributed actively on epochs.
Active pots are in list until they finish distribution epochs.
Possibly, we could combine these into one for simplicity.
